to run my automation scripts(tests) (like: regression/smoke/etc) I need Jenkins  (for testers/devs)
(because we run tests on separate computer)
(fetches/pull all my tests from GitHub, executes test cases, if something failes - sends report,
can also see who wrote the test, if it fails - sends to that person email with report that test is failed)

Can also do: we can time tests (have schedule of executing tests): run tests every mondays, every 10 days,
if new feature appears - can execute all tests (regression test)

devs - can buid and deploy

good thing: Jenkins supports many plugins


!!! Building process:
converting source code to .dmd ??? file, so we run file, not code from ide

+ Jenkins is easy to modify, extend
+ free, open-source
+ easy to detect issue in the code (notifies dev, shows the place where is the issue)

Jenkin before tester's tests automatically check if there is any syntax issues

after pushing code, says that commit has problems!

Steps:
(How to link remote repo to local)
create new repo on GitHub (copy remote link)
in IDE click on VCS - enable version control integration
choose Git
button Git pops up - click on it - Manage Remotes-add url of remote repo
push code from local PC to remote repo

How to commit code and push it (2 approaches, can be console, now will do via IDE):
click main - commit - push


Jenkins:
! - for our lesson!
item name - project name (we all logged to the same account, have the same username,
so we need to name the project differently)

named - click on freestyle project - ok
then jdk 11, git (add url)

when we create/have project - it's not our computer, it's a cloud server ???

when we run something from server - we run it from CONSOLE!!!!!
(click in IDE on terminal icon)

steps to run:
now we will teach jenkins how to run the code

ls (to see list of files in our folder)

there we have folder (src), go there
cd src
javac Main.java (compile main folder(convert to byte code))
java Main.class   (class not java! to run it)
compiler programm - compiles source code from code to byte code (so computer can read it)
I got error ??!!


then in Jenkins click Configure
in configure - build steps (for ???) - execute shell
(here we can specify our commands, same we did in terminal in IDE) cd, rcs, javac java
then apply - save

(fetched, build compiled the code) - ????

it was manual, but we can do automatic way:
when we make changes in IDE, Jenkins check is anything new on GitHub, fetches that, compile, executes

configure - build triggers - build perioditacaly
ti run every minute example
(here we need to specify schedule, via cron job, just google how often I want to run it)

then we want for example:
poll SCM (every minute Jenkins checks if we commit something in the remote repo. if yes, it will pull it)




